The pseudo-code you've provided outlines a simple algorithm for finding a maximum independent set in a graph. An independent set in a graph is a set of vertices such that no two vertices in the set are adjacent (i.e., there is no edge between them). A maximum independent set is the largest possible set of vertices that can be chosen in this way.
Here's the core idea of the algorithm explained in natural language:
1. Re-order Nodes: The algorithm starts by re-ordering all the nodes (vertices) in the graph G based on their degree, which is the number of edges connected to the node. The nodes are sorted from the smallest degree to the largest degree. This is a common technique in graph algorithms to try to make progress on the problem by starting with nodes that have fewer connections.
2. Initialization: For each vertex v in the graph G, the State[v] is initialized to 0. This state is used to keep track of whether a node has been included in the independent set (State[v] = 1) or not (State[v] = 0).
3. Iterate Over Nodes: The algorithm then iterates over each vertex v in the graph. For each vertex, it checks if State[v] is 0, which means the vertex has not been included in the independent set yet.
4. Add to Independent Set: If State[v] is 0, the vertex v is added to the independent set IS. This means that v is part of the set of vertices that do not share an edge with each other.
5. Mark Neighbors: After adding v to the independent set, the algorithm then looks at all the neighbors u of v (i.e., vertices that are directly connected to v by an edge). If any of these neighbors u have a State[u] of 0, it sets State[u] to 1, effectively marking them as not available for the independent set because they are adjacent to v.
6. Return Result: Finally, the algorithm returns the length of the independent set IS, which represents the number of vertices in the maximum independent set found.
The core idea of this algorithm is to greedily select vertices for the independent set, starting with the ones that have the fewest connections (lowest degree), and then marking their neighbors as unavailable for selection. This approach does not guarantee an optimal solution for all graphs, but it is a simple heuristic that can work well on certain types of graphs.